Pali by the Dowling Method
 - 1 Pali: "highly inflected" language
 - 2 English, French, German: subject-verb-predicate
 - 3 Recipe for Disaster: Pali primer
 - 4 Recipe for Success:
	4.1+ Learn a few simple concepts of Pali language
	4.2+ "Brute force" memorize main categories of Pali grammar
	4.3+ Read "Pali, the Buddhas Language"
	-> 2 years
 - 5 Grammatical concepts which is necessary to learn:
	5.1.Noun cases
	5.2.All eight cases:   5.2.1.Nominative: chu? ca'ch (c1Rus)
					5.2.2.Accusative: do^'i ca'ch (c4Rus)( Direct Object)
					5.2.3.Dative: chi? di.nh	     (c3Rus)( Indirect Object)
					5.2.4.Genitive: thuo.c ca'ch   (c2Rus)( so hu~u ca'ch)
					5.2.5.Ablative, Locative:        (c6Rus)( vi tri)
	5.3.Adjective cases
	5.4.Verb Tense and Mood
	5.5.Verb Voice
 - 6.Memorizing the Forms: 
	Memorize the major grammatical forms systematically.
	6.1.Write out the tables:   6.1.1.noun declensions: 200 times.
						6.1.2.adjective declensions: 100 times.
						6.1.3.regular verbs in indicative active: 200 times
						6.1.4.regular verbs in indicative passive: 200 times
						6.1.5.subjective: 200 times
	6.2.Say the paradigms to yourself. ( use dead time in the day)
 - 7.Pali, the Buddhas Language
	http://pali.nibbanam.com
	

Here's how to use Pāli, the Buddhas Language:

1) Read slowly, and make sure that you understand the grammatical function of every word. This is absolutely essential. If you start with the first lesson and read the sentences so that you "sort of get the idea of the sentence," all your memorization and practice will be wasted.

You've got to ask yourself what the case of every noun is as you read -- and ask yourself why it's in that case -- and the tense and mood of every verb, and make sure you understand the prepositions, the adjectives and the adverbs. But if you do this, you will understand every sentence perfectly, and your Pāli reading ability will increase by leaps and bounds.

2) When you've finished each lesson, study the grammar section until you understand its presentation of the material you have already memorized. This is where your "partial understanding" of the forms in the tables becomes "real" understanding. You've got to take the grammar sections slowly and read them aloud until you are sure you understand all the material.

3) Then take a notebo3) Then take a notebook and write out a complete version of each excercise. The excercises are the best thing about Pāli, the Buddhas Language. At the end of each chapter, you must be able to fill out each excercise without looking back at the chapter to check grammatical forms. If you have to check back, then you need to read the chapter all over again, slowly, until you can do the pensa out of your own head.

Keep a separate excercise Notebook for your exercises. Clearly indicate the chapter and section of each excercise. When you've completed all exercises, then you may go back to the chapter to see that all your answers are correct. (Do the excercise in black ink, mark your answers in red. Then when you come back to check your work several weeks or months from now, it will be clear to you what you mastered easily and what you needed to study more.)

4) Repeat this process for each chapter until you have completed all of dhas Language. When you've done th. When you've done this, you will be a competent reader of Pāli, both poetry and prose. From now on, all you have to do is keep in practice and you will be a respectable Pāli-fluent Buddhist for the rest of your life.

Good Luck

One last principle.

The only way to learn a language is to work on it every day.

This is something most people never figure out, and it is why most people are no good at languages.

This isn't simply a matter of "discipline." It has something to do with the learning process -- my guess is, with the way the synapses in your brain work when you're learning grammar and syntax.

If you work on a hit-or-miss basis, missing an occasional day and then trying to make up for it by putting in twice as much time the next day you study Pāli, you'll never learn the language. My motto: it is far better to put in 30 minutes every day for seven days (3 1/2 hours) than to wait until Saturday and put in 8 straight hours then.

Don't ask me why this is so. I'm not a neurologist. But I have spent over 30 years studying languages, and I'm telling you it's true.

The matter of "discipline" comes in this way. Even when you make up your mind to do your Pāli every day, life has a way of intruding so that you will be tempted to miss days. There will be crises and upsets and intrusions and excitements, and your feeling will be that "missing just one day can't hurt."

It does hurt. You've got to do your Pāli every day, through death and disease and accidents and heartbreak, when you're travelling and when you're at home, when you're in school and when you're on vacation.

The best way to do thThe best way to do this is: do your Pāli first thing every morning, before you do anything else. Then, no matter what happens for the rest of day, they can't take your Pāli lesson away from you.

When you're travelling, take your Pali, the language of the Buddha along with you. When I was first starting to use the method I'm describing here, I did an amazing amount of Pāli on buses and trains and sitting around airports.

It's interesting and fun, and it beats unmindfully watching the fat lady over at the Baskin & Robbins stand buy her kid an ice cream cone.

Good luck!ali_fil  	
	
						
